# Offertex
This is a python program that parses the offer.tex file.
When it encounters a variable marked by a PHP like dollar sign and in
all caps, because reasons. It'll ask the user to fill in this variable.

In the variables folder several constraints can be added to the variables.

Once a variable is filled in it will be remembered trough out the entire offer
tex document.

once every variable is filled in a copy of the in memory representation is written
to the automatically generated out directory.
In there the program will attempt to generate a pdf file from the newly created
latex file.

This program is useful for situation in which you want to be able to create lots
of almost similar documents. Currently the implementation part is in dutch
and has some hard dependencies but this should be relatively easily modify able.

## Instalation

### Linux
install texlive with all required packages. Make sure you use python 3.
on gentoo:

	# emerge -a app-text/texlive
	# eselect python list
	# eselect python set (any python 3)

execute trough:

	$ ./program.py

### Windows
install python 3 trough the classical google method. Install miktex.
Now you can just click `program.py`

### OSX
Install python and mactex.
then execute trough:

	$ ./program.py

### Android
Android is currently unstable due to a locale bug in qpython. although
the program can go trough the initial phases.
Android also uses the program in reduced form where the pdf file isn't
generated because the sytem module of python doesn't work.

install qpython3, and install verblatex to create the pdf.
Once the locale bug is fixed in android everything should work.

## TODO

Things I really want to finish in order of priority:

1. Issue #18 and #19 use jinjia more and remove hardcoded dependencies,
   these prevent other people from using this easily.
2. Configuration langauge update #17.
   JSON is too strict which is annoying to the current user.
2. Localization #4

### Idea dump
* Move out the hard dependencies to variable folders (KINDEREN in the options menu)
* Move the special variables (such as startplanning and activiteitdetails) into \*.py
files with the same name and let them be called as functions (in which probably
the symboltable is passed)
* Move all hardset configuration stuff in activity manager into its own folder and
let the menu be generated by a file structure.
* Some crazy ideas I had was add options for using standard output as output instead
of a file and also be able to load existing symboltables to speed up
certain kind of configs. Maybe we could add export/import mechanisms where the
symbol table is exported to JSON.
* Add a template system where multiple offer.tex files can be managed
* The configurable boolean in activity is bad, probably should make a subtype
 of that.
* Add support for \*.py variables, when these variables are encountered this
code will be executed (or a funtion in those modules will be called).
* configurable out directory.

### Futere development
I'll probably keep developing this application for as long there is demand for it
(A local business owner asked me to do this, and since software isn't his
focus I decided to just opensource it, maybe somebody can get some use of it besides him)

# License stuff
Note that the offer.tex file itself isn't licensed under GPL, its just a
reference input file. Having to share changes to it would be rather annoying
because this is different for everyone else.

The variable folder is configuration to, so also not licensed under GPL. (although
any \*.py file that may be there in the future will be under GPL)

This is also the reason why the hard dependencies should be moved out sooner
rather than later, because making changes to them would require  sharing, but they're
basically configuration. I'm not gonna do it now though because I have no
more time left.
